So let's talk about TPMs.
And I also was informed recently
that they, those can be called PMTs,
which that was new to me.
I think that's an Amazon term, maybe.
I don't know.
What is a TPM?
It really depends on
the company you're at.
This strongly depends on your company.
I think Facebook calls products
managers that work on technical things,
so that would be me a TPM.
Which is extremely strange to me.
I've seen other companies,
Stripe comes to mind.
They call their process managers or
like you know project managers but
like projects on like a much grander
scale, they call those TPMS.
So, yeah, like project manager
is concerned with process and
intercompany relations,
they call those TPMs.
So I'm not gonna really draw too much on
what I think a TPM is because that one is
so strongly contextual to
the company that you're working at.
It's nonsensical to try and define it.
The only time that I really
worked with TPS was at Stripe and
what's funny is I brought,
her name is Maggie Johnson Pinto.
She's awesome.
We were together at Microsoft.
We were both program managers
on sister teams, and
then we went to Stripe at the same
time within weeks of each other.
She was a TPM and I became a PM And it
kind of like delineates that at Microsoft
those were the same things, and
they consider us the same position and
at Stripe, they was like, you're in
very different tracks now, right?
So you'll find that your abilities
kind of snap to different positions at
different companies.
Which is always it's always
strange to me but in particular,
if I was gonna start a company, and I was
gonna define what TPM meant at my company,
it would be, you have ten teams
working on a similar project.
How do those teams work together?
That's what I would have a TPM do.
They would define the process and
the overhead, basically, of like, okay,
before we have anything go out
we're gonna have a product review.
We're gonna have an end review, and they
would run those kind of like reviews, and
they would have those
kind of like checkpoints.
And like they wouldn't necessarily concern
themselves with what's in those product
reviews, but they would concern themselves
with running those kinds of processes to
make sure that everyone's aligned and
moving correctly, right?
And then you would have project
managers defining the sprints for
all those individual teams.
It sounds complicated,
it's cuz it's complicated, right?
There's no really no two ways about that.
Program managers, this was my title at
Microsoft, another just it doesn't make
any sense unless you're talking about,
like, I'm a program manager.
The next question you should ask is,
at what company?
Because program managers can be managing,
like, horizontal initiatives,
kind of what I was talking about here.
So that's what I did a lot of Microsoft
was I would manage like developer
experience across all of Azure, which
affects every single team at Azure, right?
And so I was a program manager because
I managed the program of developer
experience.
Other program managers that I worked with
at Microsoft just worked on one product.
They were product managers, right?
So it's really gonna depend on what
company you're talking about there.
I was gonna call out PMMs,
because you see that one quite a bit.
Product marketing managers, they're
typically people that are like paired with
a product manager that market
that particular product.
So they're a function of marketing
they're not a function of product.
Though, famously,
Apple has combined those positions, so
if you're a PM at Apple, you also
market your product as well, right?
And I think recently Shopify did
that as well, so that's there's kind
of some tailwind behind product managers
doing more marketing functions.
I've never done marketing.
I don't know if I'd be
particularly good at it.
I guess I've done developer relations,
which is essentially marketing,
though I'm pretty sure I just offended
a ton of people by saying that out loud.
I said the quiet part out loud.
But, I mean, whatever,
fight me, I don't care.
[LAUGH] Wouldn't be a Brian Hall,
of course,
if I didn't offend a lot of people.
So anyway PMMs, if you have a good PMM
that works with you, it's awesome because
you get to build really cool stuff, and
then they get to go tell people about it.
So you get people using your stuff.
So a good PMM is worth
their weight in gold.
I mean, hopefully I'm communicating across
all these positions are they're all people
that if you work with them,
and they're good at their job.
They're extremely valuable to you and
even if I don't wanna do their jobs,
I'm very happy that someone
is doing those jobs, right?
When you're evaluating PM positions,
make sure you are evaluating what am I
actually gonna be doing at your company?
Because it's actually wildly
different between companies, and
there's some product management positions
that I just wouldn't be good at, and
I wouldn't wanna do.
Because again,
you're you are the space between teams.
You are the glue that kind of holds teams
together, and you might not end up doing
the things that you like about it like
I love strategy and there's a lot of
there's positions at Microsoft
that are like no strategy, right?
It's really just execution over and
over and over again and
like I can do that I just don't
wanna write like I wanna be on like
defining like what are we gonna be doing.
How are we serving customers?
I love talking to customers it's one
of my favorite parts about being
a product manager, so it strongly varies.
And I think it's a steward of you to
observe that companies always ship their
org chart like 100% of the time,
no matter what happens,
how are you formed your company is
how you're gonna ship products.
And I think that also,
the product manager is always a function
of what the org chart looks like.
So that's probably another good thing for
you to ask is like, how is your company
organized because that'll tell you a lot
about what you're about
to get yourself into.
>> I feel like it would make sense for
the product manager to own the marketing
as well, cuz if you own the strategy and
the long-term vision, I think you should
be held responsible for selling it.
Cuz if you build a product
that nobody wants to use,
then you just spent a lot of money and
time on something that nobody's gonna use.
>> You're straight in Tim Cook's camp,
you are like right there with them.
Just give them a high five and
ask him for another iPhone, right?
I don't know,
I don't think I disagree with you.
I think the only issue,
if you made me tomorrow responsible for
all of my own marketing,
I'm just not good at it yet, right?
I could figure it out,
I think I will even like it.
But it's not some,
I could not replace Krista who I work with
who is phenomenal at marketing, right?
That's the only concern that
I would have with that.
So it's good that Krista owns
that part of the company.
But I think, the bridge that I could add
to that statement is like, if you don't
own your marketing, you should work
extremely close with your marketing.
All of my products that I
before I even start working on,
I meet with legal, I meet with security,
I meet with marketing.
I meet with developer relations, and
so all of them are kind of like aware
of the stuff and start building.
And so sometimes marketing is like, hey,
maybe let's do this, this has had a better
fit here, or we can sell this better or
blah, blah blah, right?
And so
I get input really early into that system.
Using those partners is critical
to shipping the right product.
>> How important is being tactical when
being a product manager,
having coding skills?
>> Let me give a roundabout
answer to that.
It served me.
And so you have to acknowledge my
survivorship bias here that like, for me,
it's been extremely useful,
and I call on it a lot.
I write a lot of demos from
the stuff that I work on.
I write code.
Whenever I'm creating a product spec,
I'll go write sample codes.
I hope it looks like this by
the time that we're done.
So it's a tool that I leverage personally
a lot in my personal journey as a PM.
I'm gonna loop around say
some of the best PMs,
I've ever worked with have
zero coding experience.
So this is another kind of invitation for
people to consider their
PMing journey personally.
And that here's a tool that worked for
me, but there's other tools that
are equally or more effective than what
I have leveraged to get to where I am.
So is it critical to be a good PM?
Absolutely not.
Is it a cool tool to have as a PM?
Yes.
It certainly helps that, like when I walk
into a room full of engineers that they
try and talk over my head and
I can say, no, I've built that before.
That's not like this has happened to me
before, like when I started trying to talk
Kubernetes over my head, I was like,
man, I taught a course on Kubernetes.
Like, you can't talk over my head here.
I used to work on Kubernetes at Microsoft,
right?
And I think in particular for marginalized
people, that happens even more, right?
So, it can be a critical skill, but
also, there's ways around that one,
having some familiarity just
in general with it can help.
And then, also having good tech leads
that you bring with you to these kind of
meetings so, that you know where it's
gonna happen, that can help a lot as well.
So, there's strategies around it as well.
So I like, I just wanna drive home the
point of like, you're special is what I'm
trying to say, but you're different, and
you come from a different background.
And I've seen people come from like,
all sorts of wild different like one
of the PMs I've worked with came just
came directly over from marketing,
and he had such a good sense of like,
what people wanted and
like what the community wanted to build.
That he's really leveraged that
to become a really good PM,
despite the fact that his
background is all in marketing.
And so he's learned enough
about the platform to, like,
speak intelligently about it.
But like,
what makes him a really great PM is that.
He thinks about what do people want, and
how can I get this to them as a marketer?
And that particular thing makes
him different and special than me,
that I don't have that
marketing background.
I have some intuition about it, but
I don't have the discipline that he has.
So, it's about finding
your unique strengths and
leveraging those as tools
in becoming a better PM.